Update advanced-tutorial.md and other-tutorials.md (#466)
smartcontractkit/documentation: docs/Introduction/tutorials/advanced-tutorial.md

    0: "/files/04b8e56-cl.png"
---

> 👍 Requirements
>
> This tutorial requires basic knowledge about Ethereum, smart contracts, and the Chainlink Request & Receive cycle. If you're unfamiliar with those concepts, follow the [The Basics](../beginners-tutorial/) and [Random Numbers](../intermediates-tutorial/) tutorials.

<p>
  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ay4rXZhAefs
</p>

> # Overview <!-- omit in toc -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Overview
```

> In this tutorial you will learn how to request data from a public API in a smart contract. This includes understanding what Core adapters and External adapters are and how Oracle Jobs use them. You will also learn how to find the Oracle Jobs and Adapters for your contract and how to request data from an Oracle Job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will learn how to request data from a public API in a smart contract. This includes understanding what Core adapters and External adapters are and how Oracle Jobs use them. You will also learn how to find the Oracle Jobs and Adapters for your contract and how to request data from an Oracle Job.
```

**Table of Contents**

+ [1. How does the request and receive cycle work for API calls?](#1-how-does-the-request-and-receive-cycle-work-for-api-calls)
+ [2. What are initiators?](#2-what-are-initiators)
+ [3. What are Adapters?](#3-what-are-adapters)
  + [Core Adapters](#core-adapters)
  + [Contract Example](#contract-example)
  + [External Adapters](#external-adapters)
+ [4. How can I use Adapters in my own contract?](#4-how-can-i-use-adapters-in-my-own-contract)
  + [Variables](#variables)
  + [Constructor](#constructor)
  + [`requestData` Function](#requestdata-function)
  + [Callback Function](#callback-function)
+ [5. How do I deploy to testnet?](#5-how-do-i-deploy-to-testnet)
+ [6. Further Reading](#6-further-reading)

# 1. How does the request and receive cycle work for API calls?

The request and receive cycle describes how a smart contract requests data from an oracle and receives the response in a separate transaction. If you need a refresher, check out the [Basic Request Model](../architecture-request-model/).

> In the [Random Numbers](../intermediates-tutorial/) tutorial, you requested randomness from a VRF oracle, then await the response. The fulfilment function is already given to us from the `VRFConsumerBase` contract, so oracles already know where to send the response to. However, with API calls, the contract itself *defines* which function it wants to receive the response to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the [Random Numbers](../intermediates-tutorial/) tutorial, you requested randomness from a VRF oracle, then await the response. The fulfillment function is already given to us from the `VRFConsumerBase` contract, so oracles already know where to send the response to. However, with API calls, the contract itself *defines* which function it wants to receive the response to.
```

Before creating any code, you should understand how Oracle jobs can get data on-chain.

# 2. What are initiators?

> [**Initiators**](../initiators/) are what start, or initiate, a job inside an Oracle. In the case of a Request and Receive job, the [RunLog](/docs/initiators/#runlog) initiator monitors the blockchain for a request from a smart contract. Once it catches a request, it initiates the job. This runs the adapters (both core and external) that the job is configured to run eventually returning the response to the requesting contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[**Initiators**](../initiators/) are what start, or initiate, a job inside an Oracle. In the case of a Request and Receive job, the [RunLog](/docs/initiators/#runlog) initiator monitors the blockchain for a request from a smart contract. Once it catches a request, it initiates the job. This runs the adapters (both core and external) that the job is configured to run and eventually returns the response to the requesting contract.
```

> [**Initiators**](../initiators/) are what start, or initiate, a job inside an Oracle. In the case of a Request and Receive job, the [RunLog](/docs/initiators/#runlog) initiator monitors the blockchain for a request from a smart contract. Once it catches a request, it initiates the job. This runs the adapters (both core and external) that the job is configured to run eventually returning the response to the requesting contract.

Reviewer 2: Internal Initiators have been "sort of" replaced by "type" of jobs. And "runlog" type/initiator has is now direct request jobs. https://docs.chain.link/docs/jobs/types/direct-request/ as runlog has been deprecated.

Could we add this context here?

Reviewer: Captured here: https://github.com/smartcontractkit/documentation/issues/500

We'll address this in a followup.

Before creating any code, you should understand how Oracle jobs can get data on-chain.

However, before we go into the implementation, let's first understand how Oracle jobs can get data on-chain.
# 2. What are initiators?

## 1b. Initiators
[**Initiators**](../initiators/) are what start, or initiate, a job inside an Oracle. In the case of a Request and Receive job, the [RunLog](/docs/initiators/#runlog) initiator monitors the blockchain for a request from a smart contract. Once it catches a request, it initiates the job. This runs the adapters (both core and external) that the job is configured to run eventually returning the response to the requesting contract.

[Initiators](../initiators/) are what kick off a job inside an Oracle. In the case of a Request and Receive job, the [RunLog](/docs/initiators/#runlog) initiator watches the blockchain for when a smart contract makes a request. Once it catches a request, it initiates the job. This runs the adapters (both core and external) that the job is configured to run, eventually returning the response to the contract that made the request.
# 3. What are Adapters?

> ## 1c. Core Adapters

Reviewer 2: Could we point everything to `tasks` instead of `adapters`? Maybe a callout saying that adapters are no longer supported? 

https://docs.chain.link/docs/tasks/

Reviewer: Captured here: https://github.com/smartcontractkit/documentation/issues/500

We'll address this in a followup.

> Each oracle job has a configured set of tasks it needs to carry out when it is run. These tasks are defined by the [**Adapters**](../core-adapters/) they support. Adapters are split into two subcategories:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each oracle job has a configured set of tasks it must complete when it is run. These tasks are defined by the [**Adapters**](../core-adapters/) they support. Adapters are split into two subcategories:
```

> Each oracle job has a configured set of tasks it needs to carry out when it is run. These tasks are defined by the [**Adapters**](../core-adapters/) they support. Adapters are split into two subcategories:

Reviewer: Core adapters are just job types now. https://docs.chain.link/docs/jobs/

Each oracle job has a configured set of tasks it must complete when it is run. These tasks are defined by the [**Adapters**](../core-adapters/) they support. Adapters are split into two subcategories:

Each oracle job has a configured set of tasks it needs to carry out when it is run. These tasks are defined by what [Adapters](../core-adapters/) they support. For example: if a job needs to make a GET request to an API, find a specific unsigned integer field in a JSON response, then submit that back to the requesting contract, it would need a job with the following Core Adapters:

> - [HttpGet](../core-adapters/#httpget) - Call the API

Reviewer 2: swap these for their task counterparts

Reviewer: Captured here: https://github.com/smartcontractkit/documentation/issues/500

We'll address this in a followup.

> Let's walk through a real example, where you will retrieve 24 volume of the [ETH/USD pair](https://min-api.cryptocompare.com/data/pricemultifull?fsyms=ETH&tsyms=USD) from the cryptocompare API.

Reviewer: "will retrieve 24 volume of the"

Should this be "volumes" plural?

> ```json

Reviewer 2: could we use the `TOML` version of this? 

It looks like:

```toml
type = "directrequest"
schemaVersion = 1
name = "Get > Uint256"
contractAddress = "ORACLE_CONTRACT_ADDRESS"
maxTaskDuration = "0s"
observationSource = """
    decode_log   [type=ethabidecodelog
                  abi="OracleRequest(bytes32 indexed specId, address requester, bytes32 requestId, uint256 payment, address callbackAddr, bytes4 callbackFunctionId, uint256 cancelExpiration, uint256 dataVersion, bytes data)"
                  data="$(jobRun.logData)"
                  topics="$(jobRun.logTopics)"]

    decode_cbor  [type=cborparse data="$(decode_log.data)"]
    fetch        [type=http method=GET url="$(decode_cbor.get)"]
    parse        [type=jsonparse path="$(decode_cbor.path)" data="$(fetch)"]
    multiply     [type=multiply input="$(parse)" times=100]     
    encode_data  [type=ethabiencode abi="(uint256 value)" data=<{ "value": $(multiply) }>]
    encode_tx    [type=ethabiencode
                  abi="fulfillOracleRequest(bytes32 requestId, uint256 payment, address callbackAddress, bytes4 callbackFunctionId, uint256 expiration, bytes32 data)"
                  data=<{"requestId": $(decode_log.requestId), "payment": $(decode_log.payment), "callbackAddress": $(decode_log.callbackAddr), "callbackFunctionId": $(decode_log.callbackFunctionId), "expiration": $(decode_log.cancelExpiration), "data": $(encode_data)}>
                 ]
    submit_tx    [type=ethtx to="ORACLE_CONTRACT_ADDRESS" data="$(encode_tx)"]

    decode_log -> decode_cbor -> fetch -> parse -> multiply -> encode_data -> encode_tx -> submit_tx
"""
externalJobID = "19747015-6833-40e7-b3fe-0fa1e76b843b"
```

Reviewer 2: Perhaps I'm scope creeping requesting this... Maybe it's a bigger project to update all JSON job samples to TOML. 

let me know what you think.

Reviewer: Captured here: https://github.com/smartcontractkit/documentation/issues/500

We'll address this in a followup.

    <a href="../deploy-your-first-contract/" title="">What is Remix?</a>
</div>

Here is a breakdown of each component of this contract:
1. Constructor: This sets up the contract with the Oracle address, Job ID, and LINK fee that the oracle charges for the job.
2. `requestVolumeData` functions: This builds and sends a request - which includes the fulfillment functions selector - to the oracle. Notice how it adds the `get`, `path` and `times` parameters. These are read by the Adapters in the job to perform the tasks correctly. `get` is used by [HttpGet](../core-adapters/#httpget), `path` is used by [JsonParse](../core-adapters/#jsonparse) and `times` is used by [Multiply](../core-adapters/#multiply).

> 3. `fulfill` function- This is where the result is sent upon the Oracle Job's completion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. `fulfill` function: This is where the result is sent upon the Oracle Job's completion.
```

    <a href="../deploy-your-first-contract/" title="">What is Remix?</a>
</div>

Here is a breakdown of each component of this contract:
1. Constructor: This sets up the contract with the Oracle address, Job ID, and LINK fee that the oracle charges for the job.
2. `requestVolumeData` functions: This builds and sends a request - which includes the fulfillment functions selector - to the oracle. Notice how it adds the `get`, `path` and `times` parameters. These are read by the Adapters in the job to perform the tasks correctly. `get` is used by [HttpGet](../core-adapters/#httpget), `path` is used by [JsonParse](../core-adapters/#jsonparse) and `times` is used by [Multiply](../core-adapters/#multiply).
3. `fulfill` function- This is where the result is sent upon the Oracle Job's completion.

> **Note:** The calling contract should own enough LINK to pay the specified fee (by default 0.1 LINK). You can use [this tutorial](../fund-your-contract/) to fund your contract.

Reviewer: Where is the LINK fee defined?

This is an example of a basic HTTP GET request. However, it requires defining the API URL directly in the smart contract. This can, in fact, be extracted and configured on the Job level inside the Oracle.

## External Adapters

Here are some examples of external adapters:

1. Market data: [AlphaChain](https://market.link/adapters/c3a722dd-fb6c-413f-923c-e53d2df26620?network=1)
2. Real-world events: [SportsData](https://market.link/adapters/e7874f1a-2c35-4624-9a7a-644ce9d89ea4?network=1), [COVID Tracker](https://market.link/adapters/f423d46b-1bfb-4cad-9038-7934eef353eb?network=1)
3. Social media proofs: [MUBC Retweet Verifier](https://market.link/adapters/8fba59b1-f639-4d0a-9b01-7adff9b74442?network=1)

> 4. Cryptocurrency aggregators: [Coingecko](https://market.link/adapters/e43efb14-55b5-4adc-a807-f6f1c035f415?network=1), [CoinAPI](https://market.link/adapters/f4d69a08-f3dd-46e7-b4b8-3d2fb620c033?network=1)

Reviewer 2: Some of these links are broken.

}
```

# 4. How can I use Adapters in my own contract?

> You will now create a smart contract can get sports data using the [SportsDataIO](https://market.link/data-providers/d66c1ec8-2504-4696-ab22-6825044049f7/integrations) oracle job found on Chainlink Market, without having to specify the URL inside the contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a smart contract that can get sports data using the [SportsDataIO](https://market.link/data-providers/d66c1ec8-2504-4696-ab22-6825044049f7/integrations) oracle job found on Chainlink Market, without having to specify the URL inside the contract.
```

> To consume an API response, your contract should inherit from `ChainlinkClient`. This contract exposes a struct called `Chainlink.Request` which your contract should use to build the API request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To consume an API response, your contract should inherit from `ChainlinkClient`. This contract exposes a struct called `Chainlink.Request` that your contract should use to build the API request.
```

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.8.7;

import "@chainlink/contracts/src/v0.8/ChainlinkClient.sol";

contract sportContract is ChainlinkClient {
  using Chainlink for Chainlink.Request;
}
```

## Variables
The request should include the oracle address, the job id, the fee, adapter parameters, and the callback function signature. Create variables for these items using the correct data types.

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.8.7;

import "@chainlink/contracts/src/v0.8/ChainlinkClient.sol";

contract sportContract is ChainlinkClient {
  using Chainlink for Chainlink.Request;

  address private oracle;
  bytes32 private jobId;
  uint256 private fee;
}
```

## Constructor

> In the constructor, you should sets up the contract with the Oracle address, Job ID, and LINK fee that the oracle charges for the job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the constructor, set up the contract with the Oracle address, Job ID, and LINK fee that the oracle charges for the job.
```

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.8.7;

import "@chainlink/contracts/src/v0.8/ChainlinkClient.sol";

contract sportContract is ChainlinkClient {
  using Chainlink for Chainlink.Request;

  // ...
  // { previously created variables }
  // ...

  // ...
  // { constructor }
  // ...

  // Initial Request
  function requestData(string memory _date, string memory _team) public returns (bytes32 requestId)  {
      Chainlink.Request memory req = buildChainlinkRequest(jobId, address(this), this.fulfill.selector);
      req.add("date", _date);
      req.add("teamName", _team);
      return sendChainlinkRequestTo(oracle, req, fee);
  }
}
```

## Callback Function

The last component of your contract should be the `fulfill` function. This is where the sports data is sent upon the Oracle Job's completion. The [SportsDataIO](https://market.link/data-providers/d66c1ec8-2504-4696-ab22-6825044049f7/integrations) job page specifies that the request returns a `bytes32` packed `string`. You should add a `data` variable to your contract to store this result.

> **Note:** Currently, any return value must fit within 32 bytes, if the value is bigger than that multiple requests will need to be made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Currently, any return value must fit within 32 bytes. If the value is bigger than that, you must make multiple requests.
```

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.8.7;

import "@chainlink/contracts/src/v0.8/ChainlinkClient.sol";

contract sportContract is ChainlinkClient {
  using Chainlink for Chainlink.Request;

  bytes32 public data;
  // ...
  // { previously created variables }
  // ...

  // ...
  // { constructor }
  // ...

  // ...
  // { requestData function }
  // ...

  // Callback Function
  function fulfill(bytes32 _requestId, bytes32 _data) public recordChainlinkFulfillment(_requestId) {
      data = _data;
  }
}
```

# 5. How do I deploy to testnet?

Your contract is complete and ready to be compiled and deployed. You can see a complete version of the contract in Remix: 

<div class="remix-callout">
  <a href="https://remix.ethereum.org/#url=https://docs.chain.link/samples/APIRequests/sportContract.sol" target="_blank" class="cl-button--ghost solidity-tracked">Deploy this contract using Remix ↗</a>
    <a href="../deploy-your-first-contract/" title="">What is Remix?</a>
</div>
<br>

> If you don't know how to deploy a contract to the Kovan testnet from Remix, follow [The Basics](/docs/beginners-tutorial) tutorial. In order to make a job request you *must* have enough LINK to pay for it. Learn how to [acquire testnet LINK](../acquire-link/) and [fund your contract](../fund-your-contract/). Once these steps are completed, you should be able to get sports data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't know how to deploy a contract to the Kovan testnet from Remix, follow [The Basics](/docs/beginners-tutorial) tutorial. To make a job request, you *must* have enough LINK to pay for it. Learn how to [acquire testnet LINK](../acquire-link/) and [fund your contract](../fund-your-contract/). Once these steps are completed, you should be able to get sports data.
```

# 6. Further Reading

> To read more about connecting smart contracts to external APIs, read our blog posts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about connecting smart contracts to external APIs, read our blog posts:
```
